API.md, before:

<!-- version -->
# 3.0.0-rc.1 API Reference
<!-- versionstop -->

<!-- toc -->

- [Engine](#engine)
  - [`new Engine([options])`](#new-engineoptions)
  - [`execute([options[, callback]])`](#executeoptions-callback)
    - [Execution `listener`](#execution-listener)
    - [Execution `variables`](#execution-variables)
    - [Execution `services`](#execution-services)
  - [`getState()`](#getstate)
  - [`stop()`](#stop)
  - [`resume(state, [options, [callback]])`](#resumestate-options-callback)
  - [`getDefinitions(callback)`](#getdefinitionscallback)
  - [`getDefinition(callback)`](#getdefinitioncallback)
  - [Engine events](#engine-events)
  - [Activity events](#activity-events)
  - [Sequence flow events](#sequence-flow-events)
- [Transformer](#transformer)
  - [`transform(sourceXml, options, callback)`](#transformsourcexml-options-callback)
- [Validation](#validation)
  - [`validateModdleContext(moddleContext)`](#validatemoddlecontextmoddlecontext)
  - [`validateOptions(executeOptions)`](#validateoptionsexecuteoptions)
- [Loops](#loops)
  - [Cardinality loop](#cardinality-loop)
  - [Conditional loop](#conditional-loop)
  - [Collection loop](#collection-loop)
- [Expressions](#expressions)

<!-- tocstop -->

# Engine

The engine. Executes passed BPMN definitions.

## `new Engine([options])`

Creates a new Engine object where:

- `options`: Optional object
  - `source`: Bpmn definition source as String or Buffer
  - `moddleContext`: Optional parsed moddle context object
  - `name`: Optional name of engine,
  - `moddleOptions`: Optional moddle parse options

Options `source` and `context` are mutually exclusive.

Moddle options must be used if an extension is required when parsing BPMN-source. The object will be passed on to the constructor of `bpmn-moddle`. See [camunda-bpmn-moddle][1] for example.

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const fs = require('fs');

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: fs.readFileSync('./test/resources/mother-of-all.bpmn'),
  moddleOptions: {
    camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
  }
});
```

## `execute([options[, callback]])`

Execute definition with:

- `options`: Optional object
  - [`listener`](#execution-listener): Listen for [activity events](#activity-events), an `EventEmitter` object
  - [`variables`](#execution-variables): Optional object with instance variables
  - [`services`](#execution-services): Optional object with service definitions
- `callback`: optional callback
  - `err`: Error if any
  - `definition`: Executing definition
  - `siblings`: List of all definitions including executing

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <dataObjectReference id="inputFromUserRef" dataObjectRef="inputFromUser" />
    <dataObject id="inputFromUser" />
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask">
      <ioSpecification id="inputSpec">
        <dataOutput id="userInput" />
      </ioSpecification>
      <dataOutputAssociation id="associatedWith" sourceRef="userInput" targetRef="inputFromUserRef" />
    </userTask>
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

engine.execute((err, definition) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  definition.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

### Execution `listener`

An `EventEmitter` object with listeners. [Event names](#activity-events) are composed by activity event name and activity id, e.g. `wait-userTask`.

```js
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const listener = new EventEmitter();

listener.on('wait-userTask', (task, instance) => {
  console.log(`${task.type} <${task.id}> of ${instance.id} is waiting for input`);
  task.signal('don´t wait for me');
});

engine.execute({
  listener: listener
})
```

A generic event is also emitted, i.e. only the [event](#activity-events) is emitted.

```js
listener.on('entered', (task, instance) => {
  console.log(`${task.type} <${task.id}> of ${instance.id} is entered`);
});
```

Event arguments are:

- `activity`: The activity
- `instance`: The running process instance

> NB! `error` events are NOT emitted through the listener. Errors can be caught by an bpmn error event if they are to be handled.

### Execution `variables`

Execution variables are passed as the first argument to `#execute`.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const fs = require('fs');

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: fs.readFileSync('./test/resources/simple-task.bpmn')
});

const variables = {
  input: 1
};

engine.execute({
  variables: variables
}, (err, instance) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  instance.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

### Execution `services`

A service is a module used by e.g. a script tasks or a condition where:

```javascript
const options = {
  services: {
    get: {
      module: 'request',
      type: 'require',
      fnName: 'get'
    },
    checkState: (message) => {
      return message.variables.statusCode === 200;
    }
  }
};
```

- `name`: Exposed name in the engine
  - `module`: Module or global name
  - `type`: Optional type, supported types are `require` and `global`, defaults to `require`
  - `fnName`: Optional module function name

If the process will be stopped and resumed the module structure is to prefer. But it is also possible to send in functions, aware that they will not be serialized when getting state.

The module name can be a npm module, local module or a global reference. If a local module is used the path must be relative from execution path, i.e. `process.cwd()`.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
  <startEvent id="theStart" />
  <scriptTask id="scriptTask" scriptFormat="Javascript">
    <script>
      <![CDATA[
        const request = services.request;

        const self = this;

        request.get('http://example.com/test', (err, resp, body) => {
          if (err) return next(err);
          self.variables.scriptTaskCompleted = true;
          next(null, {result: body});
        })
      ]]>
    </script>
  </scriptTask>
  <endEvent id="theEnd" />
  <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="scriptTask" />
  <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="scriptTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

const services = {
  request: {
    module: 'request'
  },
  put: {
    module: 'request',
    fnName: 'put'
  },
  require: {
    module: 'require',
    type: 'global'
  },
  serviceFn: {
    module: './test/helpers/testHelpers',
    fnName: 'serviceFn'
  }
};

engine.execute({
  services: services
}, (err, instance) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  instance.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

## `getState()`

Get state of a running execution.

The saved state will include the following content:

- `state`: `running` or `idle`
- `moddleOptions`: Engine moddleOptions
- `definitions`: List of definitions
  - `state`: State of definition, `pending`, `running`, or `completed`
  - `processes`: Object with processes with id as key
    - `variables`: Execution variables
    - `services`: Execution services
    - `children`: List of child states
      - `entered`: Boolean indicating if the child is currently executing

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
const fs = require('fs');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

const listener = new EventEmitter();

let state;
listener.once('wait-userTask', (activity) => {
  state = engine.getState();
  fs.writeFileSync('./tmp/some-random-id.json', JSON.stringify(state, null, 2));
  console.log(JSON.stringify(state, null, 2));
});

engine.execute({
  listener: listener
}, (err, execution) => {
  if (err) throw err;
});
```

## `stop()`

Stop execution. The instance is terminated.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});
const listener = new EventEmitter();

let state;
listener.once('wait-userTask', (activity) => {
  engine.stop();
  state = engine.getState();
});

engine.execute({
  variables: {
    executionId: 'some-random-id'
  },
  listener: listener
}, (err, execution) => {
  if (err) throw err;
});
```

## `resume(state, [options, [callback]])`

Execute engine `#resume` function with previously saved state.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

// Retrieve saved state
const state = db.getState('some-random-id', (err, state) => {
  if (err) return console.log(err.message);

  const engine = new Bpmn.Engine();

  engine.on('end', () => {
    console.log('resumed instance completed');
  });

  engine.resume(state, (err, instance) => {
    if (err) throw err;
  });
});
```

## `getDefinitions(callback)`

Get definitions. Loads definitions from sources or passed moddle contexts.

- `callback(err, definitions)`:
  - `err`: Occassional Error if definitions failed to load
  - `definition`: List of added definitions

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="Definition_42" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

engine.getDefinitions((err, definitions) => {
  if (err) throw err;

  console.log('Loaded', definitions[0].id);

  console.log('The definition comes with process', definitions[0].getProcesses()[0].id);
});
```

## `getDefinition(callback)`

Utility function to get first definition.

- `callback(err, firstDefinition)`:
  - `err`: Occassional Error if definitions failed to load
  - `firstDefinition`: First found definition

## Engine events

Engine emits the following events:

- `error`: An non-recoverable error has occurred
- `end`: Execution has completed or was stopped

## Activity events

Each activity and flow emits events when changing state.

- `enter`: An activity is entered
- `start`: An activity is started
- `wait`: A start event or user task waits for signal
- `end`: A task has ended successfully
- `cancel`: An activity execution was canceled
- `leave`: The execution left the activity
- `error`: An non-recoverable error has occurred
  The error event will not be emitted if an `bpmn:errorEvent` is attached

## Sequence flow events

- `taken`: The sequence flow was taken
- `discarded`: The sequence flow was discarded

# Transformer

Basically a wrapper around [`bpmn-moddle.fromXml`][2].

## `transform(sourceXml, options, callback)`

- `sourceXml`: String with bpmn definition source
- `options`: Options to pass to [`bpmn-moddle`][2]
- `callback`: callback
  - `err`: Occasional error
  - `definition`: Bpmn definition
  - `moddleContext`: Bpmn moddle context

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="transformer" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

Bpmn.transformer.transform(processXml, {
  camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
}, (err, def, moddleContext) => {
  const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
    moddleContext: moddleContext
  });

  engine.execute((err, instance) => {
    if (err) throw err;

    console.log('Definition started with process', instance.mainProcess.id);
  });
});
```

# Validation

Bpmn engine exposes validation functions.

## `validateModdleContext(moddleContext)`

Validate moddle context to ensure that it is executable. Returns list of error instances, if any.

- `moddleContext`: Moddle context object

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="validate" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess2" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <exclusiveGateway id="decision" default="flow2" />
    <endEvent id="end1" />
    <endEvent id="end2" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="decision" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="decision" targetRef="end2">
      <conditionExpression xsi:type="tFormalExpression" language="JavaScript">true</conditionExpression>
    </sequenceFlow>
  </process>
</definitions>`;

Bpmn.transformer.transform(processXml, {
  camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
}, (err, def, moddleContext) => {
  console.log(Bpmn.validation.validateModdleContext(moddleContext));
});
```

## `validateOptions(executeOptions)`

Validate [execution options](#executeoptions-callback) to ensure that it is correct. Throws error if invalid.

- `executeOptions`: Execution options object


# Loops

Task loops can made based conditions, cardinality, or a collection.

## Cardinality loop

Loop a fixed number of times or until number of iterations match cardinality. The cardinality body an integer or an expression.

```xml
<bpmn:loopCardinality xsi:type="bpmn:tFormalExpression">${variables.list.length}</bpmn:loopCardinality>
```

## Conditional loop

Loop until condition is met. The condition body can be a script or an expression.

```xml
<completionCondition xsi:type="tFormalExpression">\${services.condition(variables.input)}</completionCondition>
```

## Collection loop

Loop all items in a list.

```xml
<bpmn:multiInstanceLoopCharacteristics isSequential="true" camunda:collection="\${variables.list}" />
```

For `bpmn-moddle` to read the `camunda:collection` namespaced attribute, the engine must be instantiated with moddle options referring [`camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda`][1].

# Expressions

Expressions come in the form of `${<variables or services>.<property name>}`.

The following expressions are supported:

- `${variables.input}` - resolves to the variable input
- `${variables.input[0]}` - resolves to first item of the variable input array
- `${variables.input[spaced name]}` - resolves to the variable input object property `spaced name`

- `${services.getInput}` - return the service function `getInput`
- `${services.getInput()}` - executes the service function `getInput` with the argument `{services, variables}`
- `${services.isBelow(variables.input,2)}` - executes the service function `isBelow` with result of `variable.input` value and 2

and, as utility:

- `${true}` - return Boolean value `true`
- `${false}` - return Boolean value `false`

Expressions are supported by many elements, e.g.:
- MultiInstanceLoopCharacteristics
  - `camunda:collection`: variable collection, e.g. `${variables.list}`
- ServiceTask
  - `camunda:expression` element value. moddleOptions [`require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')`][1] must be used.
- SequenceFlow
  - `conditionExpression` element value
- TimerEvent
  - `timeDuration` element value

Expressions in expressions is **not** supported.

[1]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/camunda-bpmn-moddle
[2]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/bpmn-moddle

Commit message:

Bubble event arguments when emitting error

API.md, after:

<!-- version -->
# 3.0.0-rc.1 API Reference
<!-- versionstop -->

<!-- toc -->

- [Engine](#engine)
  - [`new Engine([options])`](#new-engineoptions)
  - [`execute([options[, callback]])`](#executeoptions-callback)
    - [Execution `listener`](#execution-listener)
    - [Execution `variables`](#execution-variables)
    - [Execution `services`](#execution-services)
  - [`getState()`](#getstate)
  - [`stop()`](#stop)
  - [`resume(state, [options, [callback]])`](#resumestate-options-callback)
  - [`getDefinitions(callback)`](#getdefinitionscallback)
  - [`getDefinition(callback)`](#getdefinitioncallback)
  - [Engine events](#engine-events)
  - [Activity events](#activity-events)
  - [Sequence flow events](#sequence-flow-events)
- [Transformer](#transformer)
  - [`transform(sourceXml, options, callback)`](#transformsourcexml-options-callback)
- [Validation](#validation)
  - [`validateModdleContext(moddleContext)`](#validatemoddlecontextmoddlecontext)
  - [`validateOptions(executeOptions)`](#validateoptionsexecuteoptions)
- [Loops](#loops)
  - [Cardinality loop](#cardinality-loop)
  - [Conditional loop](#conditional-loop)
  - [Collection loop](#collection-loop)
- [Expressions](#expressions)

<!-- tocstop -->

# Engine

The engine. Executes passed BPMN definitions.

## `new Engine([options])`

Creates a new Engine object where:

- `options`: Optional object
  - `source`: Bpmn definition source as String or Buffer
  - `moddleContext`: Optional parsed moddle context object
  - `name`: Optional name of engine,
  - `moddleOptions`: Optional moddle parse options

Options `source` and `context` are mutually exclusive.

Moddle options must be used if an extension is required when parsing BPMN-source. The object will be passed on to the constructor of `bpmn-moddle`. See [camunda-bpmn-moddle][1] for example.

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const fs = require('fs');

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: fs.readFileSync('./test/resources/mother-of-all.bpmn'),
  moddleOptions: {
    camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
  }
});
```

## `execute([options[, callback]])`

Execute definition with:

- `options`: Optional object
  - [`listener`](#execution-listener): Listen for [activity events](#activity-events), an `EventEmitter` object
  - [`variables`](#execution-variables): Optional object with instance variables
  - [`services`](#execution-services): Optional object with service definitions
- `callback`: optional callback
  - `err`: Error if any
  - `definition`: Executing definition
  - `siblings`: List of all definitions including executing

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <dataObjectReference id="inputFromUserRef" dataObjectRef="inputFromUser" />
    <dataObject id="inputFromUser" />
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask">
      <ioSpecification id="inputSpec">
        <dataOutput id="userInput" />
      </ioSpecification>
      <dataOutputAssociation id="associatedWith" sourceRef="userInput" targetRef="inputFromUserRef" />
    </userTask>
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

engine.execute((err, definition) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  definition.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

### Execution `listener`

An `EventEmitter` object with listeners. [Event names](#activity-events) are composed by activity event name and activity id, e.g. `wait-userTask`.

```js
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const listener = new EventEmitter();

listener.on('wait-userTask', (task, instance) => {
  console.log(`${task.type} <${task.id}> of ${instance.id} is waiting for input`);
  task.signal('don´t wait for me');
});

engine.execute({
  listener: listener
})
```

A generic event is also emitted, i.e. only the [event](#activity-events) is emitted.

```js
listener.on('entered', (task, instance) => {
  console.log(`${task.type} <${task.id}> of ${instance.id} is entered`);
});
```

Event arguments are:

- `activity`: The activity
- `instance`: The running process instance

> NB! `error` events are NOT emitted through the listener. Errors can be caught by an bpmn error event if they are to be handled.

### Execution `variables`

Execution variables are passed as the first argument to `#execute`.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const fs = require('fs');

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: fs.readFileSync('./test/resources/simple-task.bpmn')
});

const variables = {
  input: 1
};

engine.execute({
  variables: variables
}, (err, instance) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  instance.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

### Execution `services`

A service is a module used by e.g. a script tasks or a condition where:

```javascript
const options = {
  services: {
    get: {
      module: 'request',
      type: 'require',
      fnName: 'get'
    },
    checkState: (message) => {
      return message.variables.statusCode === 200;
    }
  }
};
```

- `name`: Exposed name in the engine
  - `module`: Module or global name
  - `type`: Optional type, supported types are `require` and `global`, defaults to `require`
  - `fnName`: Optional module function name

If the process will be stopped and resumed the module structure is to prefer. But it is also possible to send in functions, aware that they will not be serialized when getting state.

The module name can be a npm module, local module or a global reference. If a local module is used the path must be relative from execution path, i.e. `process.cwd()`.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
  <startEvent id="theStart" />
  <scriptTask id="scriptTask" scriptFormat="Javascript">
    <script>
      <![CDATA[
        const request = services.request;

        const self = this;

        request.get('http://example.com/test', (err, resp, body) => {
          if (err) return next(err);
          self.variables.scriptTaskCompleted = true;
          next(null, {result: body});
        })
      ]]>
    </script>
  </scriptTask>
  <endEvent id="theEnd" />
  <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="scriptTask" />
  <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="scriptTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

const services = {
  request: {
    module: 'request'
  },
  put: {
    module: 'request',
    fnName: 'put'
  },
  require: {
    module: 'require',
    type: 'global'
  },
  serviceFn: {
    module: './test/helpers/testHelpers',
    fnName: 'serviceFn'
  }
};

engine.execute({
  services: services
}, (err, instance) => {
  if (err) throw err;
  instance.once('end', () => {
    console.log('completed')
  });
});
```

## `getState()`

Get state of a running execution.

The saved state will include the following content:

- `state`: `running` or `idle`
- `moddleOptions`: Engine moddleOptions
- `definitions`: List of definitions
  - `state`: State of definition, `pending`, `running`, or `completed`
  - `processes`: Object with processes with id as key
    - `variables`: Execution variables
    - `services`: Execution services
    - `children`: List of child states
      - `entered`: Boolean indicating if the child is currently executing

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;
const fs = require('fs');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

const listener = new EventEmitter();

let state;
listener.once('wait-userTask', (activity) => {
  state = engine.getState();
  fs.writeFileSync('./tmp/some-random-id.json', JSON.stringify(state, null, 2));
  console.log(JSON.stringify(state, null, 2));
});

engine.execute({
  listener: listener
}, (err, execution) => {
  if (err) throw err;
});
```

## `stop()`

Stop execution. The instance is terminated.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});
const listener = new EventEmitter();

let state;
listener.once('wait-userTask', (activity) => {
  engine.stop();
  state = engine.getState();
});

engine.execute({
  variables: {
    executionId: 'some-random-id'
  },
  listener: listener
}, (err, execution) => {
  if (err) throw err;
});
```

## `resume(state, [options, [callback]])`

Execute engine `#resume` function with previously saved state.

```javascript
'use strict';

const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

// Retrieve saved state
const state = db.getState('some-random-id', (err, state) => {
  if (err) return console.log(err.message);

  const engine = new Bpmn.Engine();

  engine.on('end', () => {
    console.log('resumed instance completed');
  });

  engine.resume(state, (err, instance) => {
    if (err) throw err;
  });
});
```

## `getDefinitions(callback)`

Get definitions. Loads definitions from sources or passed moddle contexts.

- `callback(err, definitions)`:
  - `err`: Occassional Error if definitions failed to load
  - `definition`: List of added definitions

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="Definition_42" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
  source: processXml
});

engine.getDefinitions((err, definitions) => {
  if (err) throw err;

  console.log('Loaded', definitions[0].id);

  console.log('The definition comes with process', definitions[0].getProcesses()[0].id);
});
```

## `getDefinition(callback)`

Utility function to get first definition.

- `callback(err, firstDefinition)`:
  - `err`: Occassional Error if definitions failed to load
  - `firstDefinition`: First found definition

## Engine events

Engine emits the following events:

- `error`: An non-recoverable error has occurred, with arguments
  - `err`: The error
  - `eventSource`: The source instance that emitted error, e.g. a task or other activitiy
- `end`: Execution has completed or was stopped

## Activity events

Each activity and flow emits events when changing state.

- `enter`: An activity is entered
- `start`: An activity is started
- `wait`: A start event or user task waits for signal
- `end`: A task has ended successfully
- `cancel`: An activity execution was canceled
- `leave`: The execution left the activity
- `error`: An non-recoverable error has occurred
  The error event will not be emitted if an `bpmn:errorEvent` is attached

## Sequence flow events

- `taken`: The sequence flow was taken
- `discarded`: The sequence flow was discarded

# Transformer

Basically a wrapper around [`bpmn-moddle.fromXml`][2].

## `transform(sourceXml, options, callback)`

- `sourceXml`: String with bpmn definition source
- `options`: Options to pass to [`bpmn-moddle`][2]
- `callback`: callback
  - `err`: Occasional error
  - `definition`: Bpmn definition
  - `moddleContext`: Bpmn moddle context

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="transformer" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <userTask id="userTask" />
    <endEvent id="theEnd" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="userTask" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="userTask" targetRef="theEnd" />
  </process>
</definitions>`;

Bpmn.transformer.transform(processXml, {
  camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
}, (err, def, moddleContext) => {
  const engine = new Bpmn.Engine({
    moddleContext: moddleContext
  });

  engine.execute((err, instance) => {
    if (err) throw err;

    console.log('Definition started with process', instance.mainProcess.id);
  });
});
```

# Validation

Bpmn engine exposes validation functions.

## `validateModdleContext(moddleContext)`

Validate moddle context to ensure that it is executable. Returns list of error instances, if any.

- `moddleContext`: Moddle context object

```javascript
const Bpmn = require('bpmn-engine');
const EventEmitter = require('events').EventEmitter;

const processXml = `
<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<definitions id="validate" xmlns="http://www.omg.org/spec/BPMN/20100524/MODEL" xmlns:xsi="http://www.w3.org/2001/XMLSchema-instance">
  <process id="theProcess2" isExecutable="true">
    <startEvent id="theStart" />
    <exclusiveGateway id="decision" default="flow2" />
    <endEvent id="end1" />
    <endEvent id="end2" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow1" sourceRef="theStart" targetRef="decision" />
    <sequenceFlow id="flow2" sourceRef="decision" targetRef="end2">
      <conditionExpression xsi:type="tFormalExpression" language="JavaScript">true</conditionExpression>
    </sequenceFlow>
  </process>
</definitions>`;

Bpmn.transformer.transform(processXml, {
  camunda: require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')
}, (err, def, moddleContext) => {
  console.log(Bpmn.validation.validateModdleContext(moddleContext));
});
```

## `validateOptions(executeOptions)`

Validate [execution options](#executeoptions-callback) to ensure that it is correct. Throws error if invalid.

- `executeOptions`: Execution options object


# Loops

Task loops can made based conditions, cardinality, or a collection.

## Cardinality loop

Loop a fixed number of times or until number of iterations match cardinality. The cardinality body an integer or an expression.

```xml
<bpmn:loopCardinality xsi:type="bpmn:tFormalExpression">${variables.list.length}</bpmn:loopCardinality>
```

## Conditional loop

Loop until condition is met. The condition body can be a script or an expression.

```xml
<completionCondition xsi:type="tFormalExpression">\${services.condition(variables.input)}</completionCondition>
```

## Collection loop

Loop all items in a list.

```xml
<bpmn:multiInstanceLoopCharacteristics isSequential="true" camunda:collection="\${variables.list}" />
```

For `bpmn-moddle` to read the `camunda:collection` namespaced attribute, the engine must be instantiated with moddle options referring [`camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda`][1].

# Expressions

Expressions come in the form of `${<variables or services>.<property name>}`.

The following expressions are supported:

- `${variables.input}` - resolves to the variable input
- `${variables.input[0]}` - resolves to first item of the variable input array
- `${variables.input[spaced name]}` - resolves to the variable input object property `spaced name`

- `${services.getInput}` - return the service function `getInput`
- `${services.getInput()}` - executes the service function `getInput` with the argument `{services, variables}`
- `${services.isBelow(variables.input,2)}` - executes the service function `isBelow` with result of `variable.input` value and 2

and, as utility:

- `${true}` - return Boolean value `true`
- `${false}` - return Boolean value `false`

Expressions are supported by many elements, e.g.:
- MultiInstanceLoopCharacteristics
  - `camunda:collection`: variable collection, e.g. `${variables.list}`
- ServiceTask
  - `camunda:expression` element value. moddleOptions [`require('camunda-bpmn-moddle/resources/camunda')`][1] must be used.
- SequenceFlow
  - `conditionExpression` element value
- TimerEvent
  - `timeDuration` element value

Expressions in expressions is **not** supported.

[1]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/camunda-bpmn-moddle
[2]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/bpmn-moddle
